> Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services, including servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence, over the internet. [^1]

Cloud computing is one of the ways that we access and store data.

Cloud computing allows us to store personal files, even backup an entire drive on servers over the internet.

For businesses, Cloud computing extends the capabilities of IT without requiring investment in new infrastructure, training new personnel, or licensing new software. These services are available on-demand and delivered economically to any device that is anywhere in the world without compromising security or function.

Cloud computing is possible because of data centers. Data centers are facilities used to house computer systems and associated components. A data center can occupy one room of a building, one or more floors, or an entire warehouse-sized building.

Data centers are generally very expensive to build and maintain. For this reason, only large organizations use privately built data centers to house their data and provide services to users. 

Small organizations that cannot afford to maintain their own private data center can reduce the overall cost of ownership by leasing server and storage services from a larger data center organization in the cloud.

For security, reliability, and fault tolerance, cloud providers often store data in distributed data centers. Instead of storing all the data of a person or an organization in one data center, it is stored in multiple data centers in different locations.

## Cloud Types
There are four primary types of clouds: *public clouds*, *private clouds*, *hybrid clouds*, and *community clouds*.

### Public Clouds
Cloud-based applications and services offered in a public cloud are made available to the general population.

Services may be free or are offered on a pay-per-use model.

The public cloud uses the internet to provide services.

### Private Clouds
Cloud-based applications and services offered in a private cloud are intended for a specific organization or entity, such as a government.

A private cloud can be set up using the organization's private network, though this can be expensive to build and maintain.

A private cloud can also be managed by an outside organization with strict access security.

### Hybrid Clouds
A hybrid cloud is made up of two or more clouds (ex: part private, part public), where each part remains a distinct object, but both are connected using a single architecture.

Individuals on a hybrid cloud would be able to have degrees of access to various services based on user access right.

### Community Clouds
A community cloud is created for exclusive use by specific entities or organizations.

The differences between public clouds and community clouds are the functional needs that have been customized for the community.

For example, healthcare organizations must remain compliant with policies and laws (e.g., HIPAA) that require special authentication and confidentiality.

Community clouds are similar to a public cloud environment, but with set levels of security, privacy, and even regulatory compliance of a private cloud.

[^1]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/what-is-cloud-computing