The OSI reference model provides an extensive list of functions and services that can occur at each layer.

**This type of model provides consistency within all types of network protocols and services by describing what must be done at a particular layer, but not prescribing how it should be accomplished.**

It also describes the interaction of each layer with the layers directly above and below.

The TCP/IP protocols are structured around both the OSI and TCP/IP models.

## 7 - Application Layer
The application layer contains protocols used for process-to-process communications.

## 6 - Presentation Layer
The presentation layer provides for common representation of the data transferred between application layer services.

## 5 - Session Layer
The session layer provides services to the presentation layer to organize its dialogue and to manage data exchange.

## 4 - Transport
The transport layer defines services to segment, transfer, and reassemble the data for individual communications between the end devices.

## 3 - Network
The network layer provides services to exchange the individual pieces of data over the network between identified end devices.

## 2 - Data Link Layer
The data link layer protocols describe methods for exchanging data frames between devices over a common media.

## 1 - Physical Layer
The physical layer protocols describe the mechanical, electrical, functional and procedural means to activate, maintain and de-activate physical connections for a bit transmission to and from a network device.